deployment_guide.md, before:

# Deployment Guide - Nviv AI Chatbot

This guide covers multiple deployment options for your Azure OpenAI chatbot application.

## Prerequisites

- Azure account with an active subscription
- Azure OpenAI resource with deployed model
- Git repository (for some deployment methods)

## Option 1: Azure App Service (Recommended)

Azure App Service is ideal for hosting both the Python backend and React frontend.

### Backend Deployment

1. **Build the frontend:**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm run build
   ```

2. **Serve frontend from backend:**
   Update `src/api.py` to serve the built frontend files:
   ```python
   from fastapi.staticfiles import StaticFiles
   
   # Add after CORS middleware
   app.mount("/", StaticFiles(directory="frontend/dist", html=True), name="static")
   ```

3. **Create `startup.sh`:**
   ```bash
   #!/bin/bash
   export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$(pwd)/backend/src
   uvicorn backend.src.api:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
   ```

4. **Deploy to Azure App Service:**
   ```bash
   az webapp up --runtime PYTHON:3.9 --sku B1 --name <your-app-name>
   ```

5. **Configure environment variables** in Azure Portal under Configuration → Application settings.

### Using Azure CLI

```bash
# Login
az login

# Create resource group
az group create --name chatbot-rg --location eastus

# Create App Service plan
az appservice plan create --name chatbot-plan --resource-group chatbot-rg --sku B1 --is-linux

# Create web app
az webapp create --resource-group chatbot-rg --plan chatbot-plan --name <your-app-name> --runtime "PYTHON:3.9"

# Configure startup command
az webapp config set --resource-group chatbot-rg --name <your-app-name> --startup-file "startup.sh"

# Deploy code
az webapp up --name <your-app-name> --resource-group chatbot-rg
```

## Option 2: Docker Deployment

### Build and Run Locally

```bash
# Build the image
docker build -t azure-chatbot .

# Run the container
docker run -d -p 8000:8000 --env-file .env --name chatbot azure-chatbot
```

### Deploy to Azure Container Instances

```bash
# Create container registry
az acr create --resource-group chatbot-rg --name <registry-name> --sku Basic

# Build and push image
az acr build --registry <registry-name> --image azure-chatbot:latest .

# Deploy to ACI
az container create \
  --resource-group chatbot-rg \
  --name chatbot-container \
  --image <registry-name>.azurecr.io/azure-chatbot:latest \
  --dns-name-label <unique-dns-name> \
  --ports 8000 \
  --environment-variables \
    AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=$AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT \
    AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=$AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY \
    AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=$AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME
```

## Option 3: Other Cloud Platforms

### Render

1. Create a new Web Service
2. Connect your GitHub repository
3. Set build command: `cd frontend && npm install && npm run build && cd .. && pip install -r requirements.txt`
4. Set start command: `uvicorn src.api:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT`
5. Add environment variables

### Railway

1. Create new project from GitHub
2. Add environment variables
3. Railway auto-detects Python and deploys

### Heroku

```bash
# Create Procfile
echo "web: uvicorn src.api:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port \$PORT" > Procfile

# Deploy
heroku create <app-name>
heroku config:set AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=<value>
heroku config:set AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=<value>
heroku config:set AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=<value>
git push heroku main
```

## Option 4: GitHub Actions Deployment (CI/CD)

Automate your deployments whenever you push to the `main` branch.

### 1. Configure GitHub Secrets

1.  In your GitHub repository, go to **Settings** > **Secrets and variables** > **Actions**.
2.  Click **New repository secret**.
3.  Name: `AZURE_WEBAPP_PUBLISH_PROFILE`.
4.  Value: Paste the content of the Publish Profile downloaded from the Azure Portal (App Service > Get publish profile).

### 2. Update Workflow File

1.  Open [.github/workflows/deploy.yml](file:///.github/workflows/deploy.yml).
2.  Replace `'YOUR_APP_NAME'` with your actual Azure App Service name.

### 3. Deploy

Push your changes to the `main` branch:
```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Add GitHub Actions workflow"
git push origin main
```
The workflow will automatically trigger and deploy your app.


## Setting Environment Variables in Azure

Since this app uses Azure OpenAI, you must set your API keys as **Environment Variables** (Application Settings) in the Azure Portal so the backend can access them.

1.  In the **Azure Portal**, go to your **App Service** (nviv).
2.  On the left menu, select **Settings** > **Environment variables** (or **Configuration** in some versions).
3.  Under the **App settings** tab, click **+ Add**.
4.  Add the following variables:
    *   **Azure OpenAI (Chat)**: `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT`, `AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY`, `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME`, `AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION`.
    *   **Azure AI Foundry (Images)**: `AZURE_OPENAI_FLUX_URL`, `AZURE_OPENAI_FLUX_DEPLOYMENT`.
    *   **Twilio (WhatsApp)**: `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`, `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`, `TWILIO_FROM_NUMBER`.
    *   **Meta (Native WhatsApp)**: `WHATSAPP_ACCESS_TOKEN`, `WHATSAPP_PHONE_NUMBER_ID`, `WHATSAPP_VERIFY_TOKEN`.
5.  Click **Apply** at the bottom, then click **Confirm** to restart your app with the new settings.

---

## Production Checklist

- [ ] Build frontend for production (`npm run build`)
- [ ] Set all environment variables
- [ ] Configure CORS for production domain
- [ ] Enable HTTPS
- [ ] Set up monitoring and logging
- [ ] Configure auto-scaling (if needed)
- [ ] Set up CI/CD pipeline
- [ ] Test all endpoints in production

---

## WhatsApp Integration (via Twilio)

You can now connect your chatbot to WhatsApp using Twilio.

### 1. Twilio Sandbox Setup
1.  Go to the **Twilio Console** > **Messaging** > **Try it Out** > **Send a WhatsApp message**.
2.  Follow the instructions to join the Sandbox (e.g., text `join <your-sandbox-word>` to your Sandbox number).

### 2. Configure Webhook
1.  In the Twilio Console, go to **Messaging** > **Settings** > **WhatsApp Sandbox Settings**.
2.  Under **Sandbox Configuration**, find the field **"WHEN A MESSAGE COMES IN"**.
3.  Set the URL to: `https://<your-app-name>.azurewebsites.net/whatsapp`
4.  Ensure the method is set to `POST`.
5.  Click **Save**.

### 3. Test on WhatsApp
1.  Send a message to your Twilio Sandbox number.
2.  The AI should respond back directly in your WhatsApp chat!

> [!NOTE]
> The `/whatsapp` endpoint returns TwiML, which Twilio uses to format the response message. Azure OpenAI environment variables must be correctly configured for the response to be generated.

---

## Native Meta WhatsApp Integration

Alternatively, you can connect directly to Meta's Business Platform without Twilio.

### 1. Meta App Setup
1.  Create an app on the **Meta App Dashboard**.
2.  Add the **WhatsApp** product to your app.
3.  In the **WhatsApp** > **Configuration** tab:
    - **Callback URL**: `https://<your-app-name>.azurewebsites.net/meta/webhook`
    - **Verify Token**: Set a custom string (e.g., `nviv_verify_token`).
4.  Copy your **Phone Number ID** and **Permanent Access Token**.

### 2. Configure Environment Variables
Add these to your Azure App Service:
- `WHATSAPP_ACCESS_TOKEN`: Your Meta Access Token.
- `WHATSAPP_PHONE_NUMBER_ID`: Your Phone Number ID.
- `WHATSAPP_VERIFY_TOKEN`: The same token you set in the Meta Console.

### 3. Test
1.  Whitelist your phone number in the Meta Dashboard (for test numbers).
2.  Send a message or a voice note! The bot will respond via the Meta Graph API.

Commit message:

fix: ensure frontend/dist is included in Azure App Service deployments
By default, Azure CLI (az webapp up) and VS Code Azure extensions
ignore files tracked in .gitignore. This causes the built frontend
to be excluded from deployments, resulting in a 404 from FastAPI.
Added .azureignore and .vscode/settings.json to override this and
include the dist folder.

deployment_guide.md, after:

# Deployment Guide - Nviv AI Chatbot

This guide covers multiple deployment options for your Azure OpenAI chatbot application.

## Prerequisites

- Azure account with an active subscription
- Azure OpenAI resource with deployed model
- Git repository (for some deployment methods)

## Option 1: Azure App Service (Recommended)

Azure App Service is ideal for hosting both the Python backend and React frontend.

### Backend Deployment

1. **Build the frontend:**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm run build
   ```

2. **Serve frontend from backend:**
   Update `src/api.py` to serve the built frontend files:
   ```python
   from fastapi.staticfiles import StaticFiles
   
   # Add after CORS middleware
   app.mount("/", StaticFiles(directory="frontend/dist", html=True), name="static")
   ```

3. **Create `startup.sh`:**
   ```bash
   #!/bin/bash
   export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$(pwd)/backend/src
   uvicorn backend.src.api:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
   ```

4. **Deploy to Azure App Service:**
   ```bash
   az webapp up --runtime PYTHON:3.9 --sku B1 --name <your-app-name>
   ```
   *Note: `az webapp up` and the VS Code Azure extension normally ignore files in `.gitignore` (which includes `frontend/dist`). We have added an `.azureignore` and `.vscode/settings.json` to ensure the compiled frontend is included when you deploy.*

5. **Configure environment variables** in Azure Portal under Configuration → Application settings.

### Using Azure CLI

```bash
# Login
az login

# Create resource group
az group create --name chatbot-rg --location eastus

# Create App Service plan
az appservice plan create --name chatbot-plan --resource-group chatbot-rg --sku B1 --is-linux

# Create web app
az webapp create --resource-group chatbot-rg --plan chatbot-plan --name <your-app-name> --runtime "PYTHON:3.9"

# Configure startup command
az webapp config set --resource-group chatbot-rg --name <your-app-name> --startup-file "startup.sh"

# Deploy code
az webapp up --name <your-app-name> --resource-group chatbot-rg
```

## Option 2: Docker Deployment

### Build and Run Locally

```bash
# Build the image
docker build -t azure-chatbot .

# Run the container
docker run -d -p 8000:8000 --env-file .env --name chatbot azure-chatbot
```

### Deploy to Azure Container Instances

```bash
# Create container registry
az acr create --resource-group chatbot-rg --name <registry-name> --sku Basic

# Build and push image
az acr build --registry <registry-name> --image azure-chatbot:latest .

# Deploy to ACI
az container create \
  --resource-group chatbot-rg \
  --name chatbot-container \
  --image <registry-name>.azurecr.io/azure-chatbot:latest \
  --dns-name-label <unique-dns-name> \
  --ports 8000 \
  --environment-variables \
    AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=$AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT \
    AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=$AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY \
    AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=$AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME
```

## Option 3: Other Cloud Platforms

### Render

1. Create a new Web Service
2. Connect your GitHub repository
3. Set build command: `cd frontend && npm install && npm run build && cd .. && pip install -r requirements.txt`
4. Set start command: `uvicorn src.api:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT`
5. Add environment variables

### Railway

1. Create new project from GitHub
2. Add environment variables
3. Railway auto-detects Python and deploys

### Heroku

```bash
# Create Procfile
echo "web: uvicorn src.api:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port \$PORT" > Procfile

# Deploy
heroku create <app-name>
heroku config:set AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=<value>
heroku config:set AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=<value>
heroku config:set AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=<value>
git push heroku main
```

## Option 4: GitHub Actions Deployment (CI/CD)

Automate your deployments whenever you push to the `main` branch.

### 1. Configure GitHub Secrets

1.  In your GitHub repository, go to **Settings** > **Secrets and variables** > **Actions**.
2.  Click **New repository secret**.
3.  Name: `AZURE_WEBAPP_PUBLISH_PROFILE`.
4.  Value: Paste the content of the Publish Profile downloaded from the Azure Portal (App Service > Get publish profile).

### 2. Update Workflow File

1.  Open [.github/workflows/deploy.yml](file:///.github/workflows/deploy.yml).
2.  Replace `'YOUR_APP_NAME'` with your actual Azure App Service name.

### 3. Deploy

Push your changes to the `main` branch:
```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Add GitHub Actions workflow"
git push origin main
```
The workflow will automatically trigger and deploy your app.


## Setting Environment Variables in Azure

Since this app uses Azure OpenAI, you must set your API keys as **Environment Variables** (Application Settings) in the Azure Portal so the backend can access them.

1.  In the **Azure Portal**, go to your **App Service** (nviv).
2.  On the left menu, select **Settings** > **Environment variables** (or **Configuration** in some versions).
3.  Under the **App settings** tab, click **+ Add**.
4.  Add the following variables:
    *   **Azure OpenAI (Chat)**: `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT`, `AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY`, `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME`, `AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION`.
    *   **Azure AI Foundry (Images)**: `AZURE_OPENAI_FLUX_URL`, `AZURE_OPENAI_FLUX_DEPLOYMENT`.
    *   **Twilio (WhatsApp)**: `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`, `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`, `TWILIO_FROM_NUMBER`.
    *   **Meta (Native WhatsApp)**: `WHATSAPP_ACCESS_TOKEN`, `WHATSAPP_PHONE_NUMBER_ID`, `WHATSAPP_VERIFY_TOKEN`.
5.  Click **Apply** at the bottom, then click **Confirm** to restart your app with the new settings.

---

## Production Checklist

- [ ] Build frontend for production (`npm run build`)
- [ ] Set all environment variables
- [ ] Configure CORS for production domain
- [ ] Enable HTTPS
- [ ] Set up monitoring and logging
- [ ] Configure auto-scaling (if needed)
- [ ] Set up CI/CD pipeline
- [ ] Test all endpoints in production

---

## WhatsApp Integration (via Twilio)

You can now connect your chatbot to WhatsApp using Twilio.

### 1. Twilio Sandbox Setup
1.  Go to the **Twilio Console** > **Messaging** > **Try it Out** > **Send a WhatsApp message**.
2.  Follow the instructions to join the Sandbox (e.g., text `join <your-sandbox-word>` to your Sandbox number).

### 2. Configure Webhook
1.  In the Twilio Console, go to **Messaging** > **Settings** > **WhatsApp Sandbox Settings**.
2.  Under **Sandbox Configuration**, find the field **"WHEN A MESSAGE COMES IN"**.
3.  Set the URL to: `https://<your-app-name>.azurewebsites.net/whatsapp`
4.  Ensure the method is set to `POST`.
5.  Click **Save**.

### 3. Test on WhatsApp
1.  Send a message to your Twilio Sandbox number.
2.  The AI should respond back directly in your WhatsApp chat!

> [!NOTE]
> The `/whatsapp` endpoint returns TwiML, which Twilio uses to format the response message. Azure OpenAI environment variables must be correctly configured for the response to be generated.

---

## Native Meta WhatsApp Integration

Alternatively, you can connect directly to Meta's Business Platform without Twilio.

### 1. Meta App Setup
1.  Create an app on the **Meta App Dashboard**.
2.  Add the **WhatsApp** product to your app.
3.  In the **WhatsApp** > **Configuration** tab:
    - **Callback URL**: `https://<your-app-name>.azurewebsites.net/meta/webhook`
    - **Verify Token**: Set a custom string (e.g., `nviv_verify_token`).
4.  Copy your **Phone Number ID** and **Permanent Access Token**.

### 2. Configure Environment Variables
Add these to your Azure App Service:
- `WHATSAPP_ACCESS_TOKEN`: Your Meta Access Token.
- `WHATSAPP_PHONE_NUMBER_ID`: Your Phone Number ID.
- `WHATSAPP_VERIFY_TOKEN`: The same token you set in the Meta Console.

### 3. Test
1.  Whitelist your phone number in the Meta Dashboard (for test numbers).
2.  Send a message or a voice note! The bot will respond via the Meta Graph API.
